## Introduction
Deep potential long-range (DPLR) model for water. **[1]**

Previous deep potential (DP) models lack explicit long-range interactions and fail to describe properties that derive from the Coulombic tail of the forces. To overcome this limitation we extend the DP model by approximating the long-range electrostatic interaction between ions (nuclei+core electrons) and valence electrons with that of distributions of spherical Gaussian charges located at ionic and electronic sites. The latter are rigorously defined in terms of the centers of the maximally localized Wannier distributions, whose dependence on the local atomic environment is modeled accurately by a deep neural network.

## Training
The DPLR model is trained on the dataset generated by DP-GEN **[2,3]**. In DPLR, the spread parameter β, i.e. the inverse spread of the Gaussian charge distribution, needs to be fixed. In the limit of β going to 0, the Gaussian width is infinite and DPLR reduces to the standard DP model. On the other hand, for β going to infinity, the Gaussian charges become point charges. In this limit, the magnitude of the intramolecular Coulomb force between the oxygen ion ( $q_I = 6e$ ) and its associated WC ( $q_n = −8e$ ), for a typical separation distance(D ≈ 0.07Å), is about 104 eV/Å , which is about four orders of magnitude larger than the average atomic force. This situation would create serious numerical problems due to the difficulty of resolving a labeled force from the strong intramolecular Coulomb force. Therefore, there should be an optimal β, neither too small to avoid reduction to the standard DP model, nor too large to avoid distributions too close to point-charges.

More details can be found in **[1]**.


## Use model
1. Download and install LAMMPS: https://docs.lammps.org/Manual.html
2. Download and install DeePMD-kit: https://github.com/deepmodeling/deepmd-kit
3. Prepare input data for LAMMPS
4. Download the model
5. Run MD with LAMMPS: https://github.com/deepmodeling/deepmd-kit/blob/master/doc/third-party/lammps.md

## References
**[1]** Zhang, Linfeng, et al. "A deep potential model with long-range electrostatic interactions." The Journal of Chemical Physics 156.12 (2022): 124107.

**[2]** Zhang, Linfeng, et al. "Active learning of uniformly accurate interatomic potentials for materials simulation." Physical Review Materials 3.2 (2019): 023804.

**[3]** Zhang, Yuzhi, et al. "DP-GEN: A concurrent learning platform for the generation of reliable deep learning based potential energy models." Computer Physics Communications 253 (2020): 107206.
